this medium-sized monster lives about a
thousand light years away from earth
that's almost 6 000 million million
miles
on the scale of the universe it's right
next door more than four times the mass
of our sun
it's surrounded by streams of gas one by
one
gassy shreds send out the last flares of
light before disappearing inside
and those are some of the brightest
emissions in space
there are two stars nearby one orbiting
the powerful space
object and the other moving around this
inner pair
scientists think this newly discovered
black hole might be the nearest to earth
it's also the only system with a black
hole visible to the unaided eye
hey good news you're gonna visit it
right now
higher and higher into the atmosphere
and soon
earth turns into a glorious blue sphere
you pass by the international space
station
hi guys but before you can see it in
great detail it's out of sight
no wonder the largest human-made thing
in space
is traveling at a speed of more than 17
000 miles per hour
you move further from earth and see
numerous satellites circling the planet
they come in all shapes and sizes but
each one of them has an antenna and a
power source
often a solar panel or battery you reach
the moon
it's a cold and dry egg shaped sphere
with the surface strewn with craters and
rocks you see dark areas they appeared
when giant hollows left by asteroids or
comets
got flooded by basaltic lava lighter
areas are highlands
the next site on your way is mars which
is called the red planet
for a reason it's covered with fine
orange red dust that looks like talcum
powder
the planet's surface is rocky with
canyons volcanoes craters
and dry lake beds all over it you spot a
moving dust storm it looks like a
massive tornado
but that's a relatively small one a
large storm can't be seen from earth
you travel by gas giant jupiter the
planet is covered in thick clouds
red yellow brown and white this makes
jupiter look as if it has stripes
the planet doesn't have a solid surface
you could stand on it's just
layers and layers of gases you
immediately recognize saturn
thanks to its prominent rings they
consist of groups of tiny ringlets made
of chunks of rock and ice
the planet itself is pretty much a ball
of hydrogen and helium
with no solid ground saturn is also the
place where winds travel at a breakneck
speed of a thousand miles per
hour at the equator you don't come
across any other planets on your way
they must be hiding behind the sun at
the moment soon
you enter an eerie place it's huge cold
and dark
the kuiper belt is one of the biggest
structures in our solar system
it looks like a doughnut with its inner
edges starting at about 30 astronomical
units from the sun
and 1au is roughly the distance between
our sun and
earth about 93 million miles the kuiper
belt is the main source of comets
hundreds of thousands of objects in this
area are 60 miles across and larger
some of them even have their own moons
well past the kuiper belt
you move through the oort cloud it's a
huge spherical shell surrounding the
solar system
and stretching for five to one hundred
thousand astronomical units
you can compare the oort cloud with a
thick walled bubble made up of more than
two trillion icy pieces of space debris
the smallest of these space bodies are
as big as mountains
you're leaving the solar system behind
and are now moving through the vacuum
between different star systems
but this vacuum isn't entirely empty
it's filled with dust and other
particles
magnetic fields and cosmic rays finally
you reach your destination
the black hole it's a mysterious place
where the laws of physics people are
familiar with stop
working black holes appear when massive
stars collapse under their own weight
the gravitational field of the newly
formed object is so powerful
that even light including x-rays can't
escape it
that's why the center of the black hole
is pitch black
it doesn't mean you can't see the hole
the greedy thing consumes all the matter
that strays too close
squeezing it into a superheated disc of
glowing gas
the black hole also bends light around
it which creates
a circular shadow you approach this
chaos of heat and gravity
in search of the event horizon every
black hole has an invisible line in the
sand
cross it and you won't be able to escape
even if you're a beam of light
beyond the point of no return the
gravity is just too strong
but the big circle in the middle is
bigger than the event horizon
anything that approaches the black hole
first goes into orbit around it
once that happens there's no way back
whatever this object is
it'll end up being pulled into the hole
this region before the event horizon
called the photon spear looks like the
black hole's shadow
even though it isn't if you got there
and somehow managed to stay in one piece
you'd be able to see the back of your
head the particles of light from your
head would orbit
around the black hole at immense speeds
and come at you
from a head unfortunately you wouldn't
manage to pull it off
once you started your journey towards
the center of the black hole
the difference in acceleration between
your head and feet
would be many thousands of earth
gravities you would be
spaghettified but you'll find out about
that later
right now you're watching in awe how
unlucky adventurers surrender to the
black hole's gravity
and begin their journey toward the end
first the material gets caught in the
black hole's orbit
and squeezed into a razor thin spinning
band
friction heat electric and magnetic
forces energize this disc
which makes the material glow intensely
the most
massive black holes have such bright
bands that they can outshine
millions of galaxies inside this disk of
glowing material
particles rub against one another it
slows them down
and sends them straight toward the black
hole's event horizon
if this friction didn't exist the
material would be orbiting the black
hole for billions of years
like planets circle around their stars
anyway
you eventually reach the so-called
surface of the black hole
by that i mean the event horizon it's
not a real boundary or membrane
and you don't understand you've crossed
it right away it takes you several
seconds to realize
you won't be able to escape the black
hole's clutches anymore
it's not as dark as you imagined it
would be that's because the light
also trapped by the black hole's
gravitational pull is falling in along
with you
it's not bright but it's still there the
longer you fall
the more stretched head to toe you
become this process
is what's called spaghettification you
also get squeezed around your midsection
and the beams of light surrounding you
form a glowing band around your waist
the last thing you see is darkness it
feels as if you're landing on a massive
empty pitch black planet hey back to the
black hole
what happens after that well you tell me
can it be that you just come out of a
white hole
their existence hasn't been proven yet
but some scientists
even suppose black and white holes could
be two sides of the same coin
now if you're looking at it from afar
you wouldn't be able to tell a white
hole from a black one
it would spin it would have a great mass
even if it were as tiny as one atom
a ring of gas and dust would be circling
it but
if you watched long enough you would see
something no black hole would manage to
repeat
a belch only then at the moment when
something comes
out would you realize you're staring at
a white hole it's as if you're watching
a black hole's time reversal
and while the black hole's event horizon
is a point of no return
in white holes it's a boundary of no
admission
nothing can get inside which makes white
holes even
more mysterious than their black
siblings but even if
white holes existed they wouldn't hang
around for too long
before collapsing into black holes well
i don't know about you
but my brain hurts now i have to sit
down